README.md, before:

<h1>
  <img src="./public/icon.png" alt="KubeForge Icon" style="height: 1.5em; vertical-align: middle; margin-right: 0.5em;">
  <a href="https://kubefor.ge">KubeForge</a>
</h1>

To get started just run:
```
docker run -p 3000:3000 get.kubefor.ge/latest
```
or
```
docker run -p 3000:3000 ghcr.io/kubenote/kubeforge:latest
```

**KubeForge** is a visual-first toolkit that simplifies the process of building, validating, and managing Kubernetes deployment configurations. Whether you're new to Kubernetes or maintaining large-scale systems, KubeForge streamlines the creation of valid deployment YAMLs using an intuitive interface backed by live schema references.

![KubeForge Screenshot](./public/git/screenshot.png)

## ✨ Features

- 📦 Drag-and-drop interface for Kubernetes objects
- 📘 Smart schema awareness powered by Kubernetes JSON schemas
- 🧩 Modular component editor with support for templates and reusable specs
- 🔁 Real-time visual updates and dependency linking between resources
- ⚙️ Export ready-to-apply YAML files

## 🚀 Goals

- Reduce the learning curve for Kubernetes configuration
- Eliminate syntax and schema errors during development
- Help DevOps teams and developers prototype deployment setups visually
- Support real-time collaboration and configuration sharing in the future

## ⚙️ How It Works

KubeForge keeps Kubernetes definitions up to date by integrating with [kubenote/kubernetes-schema](https://github.com/kubenote/kubernetes-schema), a companion repository that runs a scheduled job daily. This job fetches the latest official Kubernetes JSON schemas for all supported versions.

These schemas are then automatically pulled into the KubeForge app, ensuring the editor always uses the most current, version-specific spec definitions. This guarantees that users are building against accurate Kubernetes configurations, with proper field validation and metadata.

Additionally, KubeForge enables **direct YAML hosting**, so you can reference built configurations from a stable URL when deploying nodes via automation or GitOps pipelines.


## 📂 Screenshot

The UI provides a live visual representation of object relationships and fields:

> ![KubeForge UI](./public/git/screenshot.png)
> ![KubeForge UI](./public/git/screenshot-1.png)
> ![KubeForge UI](./public/git/screenshot-2.png)
> ![KubeForge UI](./public/git/screenshot-3.png)
> ![KubeForge UI](./public/git/screenshot-4.png)
> ![KubeForge UI](./public/git/screenshot-6.png)

## 🛠️ Coming Soon

- Real-time validation against cluster versions
- Helm chart generation
- GitOps-style export templates

---

Feel free to contribute, file issues, or request features!

Commit message:

Decouple core for SaaS consumption
- Add repository pattern (IProjectRepository, IHostedYamlRepository, ISchemaRepository) with Prisma implementations and a registry for SaaS override
- Add storage provider interface (IStorageProvider) with filesystem implementation
- Switch database from SQLite to PostgreSQL with Docker Compose for local dev
- Add KubernetesSchema and SchemaGvk models; version dropdown now reads from DB
- Add schema ingestion script (npm run db:ingest-schemas) that downloads and ingests K8s schemas
- Compose all React providers into KubeForgeProviders wrapper
- Add tsup build config and package exports for library consumption
- Add GitHub Actions CI workflow with Postgres service container
- Add SaaS integration and Postgres setup documentation

README.md, after:

<h1>
  <img src="./public/icon.png" alt="KubeForge Icon" style="height: 1.5em; vertical-align: middle; margin-right: 0.5em;">
  <a href="https://kubefor.ge">KubeForge</a>
</h1>

To get started just run:
```
docker run -p 3000:3000 get.kubefor.ge/latest
```
or
```
docker run -p 3000:3000 ghcr.io/kubenote/kubeforge:latest
```

**KubeForge** is a visual-first toolkit that simplifies the process of building, validating, and managing Kubernetes deployment configurations. Whether you're new to Kubernetes or maintaining large-scale systems, KubeForge streamlines the creation of valid deployment YAMLs using an intuitive interface backed by live schema references.

![KubeForge Screenshot](./public/git/screenshot.png)

## ✨ Features

- 📦 Drag-and-drop interface for Kubernetes objects
- 📘 Smart schema awareness powered by Kubernetes JSON schemas
- 🧩 Modular component editor with support for templates and reusable specs
- 🔁 Real-time visual updates and dependency linking between resources
- ⚙️ Export ready-to-apply YAML files

## 🚀 Goals

- Reduce the learning curve for Kubernetes configuration
- Eliminate syntax and schema errors during development
- Help DevOps teams and developers prototype deployment setups visually
- Support real-time collaboration and configuration sharing in the future

## ⚙️ How It Works

KubeForge keeps Kubernetes definitions up to date by integrating with [kubenote/kubernetes-schema](https://github.com/kubenote/kubernetes-schema), a companion repository that runs a scheduled job daily. This job fetches the latest official Kubernetes JSON schemas for all supported versions.

These schemas are then automatically pulled into the KubeForge app, ensuring the editor always uses the most current, version-specific spec definitions. This guarantees that users are building against accurate Kubernetes configurations, with proper field validation and metadata.

Additionally, KubeForge enables **direct YAML hosting**, so you can reference built configurations from a stable URL when deploying nodes via automation or GitOps pipelines.


## 📂 Screenshot

The UI provides a live visual representation of object relationships and fields:

> ![KubeForge UI](./public/git/screenshot.png)
> ![KubeForge UI](./public/git/screenshot-1.png)
> ![KubeForge UI](./public/git/screenshot-2.png)
> ![KubeForge UI](./public/git/screenshot-3.png)
> ![KubeForge UI](./public/git/screenshot-4.png)
> ![KubeForge UI](./public/git/screenshot-6.png)

## 📦 Using as a Library

KubeForge can be installed as a dependency for building SaaS products on top of it:

```bash
npm install github:kubenote/kubeforge#v0.2.0
```

This provides:
- **Repository interfaces** for custom database implementations (e.g., tenant-scoped queries)
- **Storage provider interface** for custom file storage (e.g., S3)
- **Composable React providers** for embedding KubeForge UI
- **TypeScript types** for all data models

See [SaaS Integration Guide](docs/claude-generated/saas-integration.md) for details.

## 🛠️ Coming Soon

- Real-time validation against cluster versions
- Helm chart generation
- GitOps-style export templates

---

Feel free to contribute, file issues, or request features!
